## Call for Papers

You are encouraged to submit a full paper of at least 4 pages with a maximum of 10 pages, on the following topics:

 - Multi-engineering modeling and simulation with free and commercial Modelica libraries (mechanics, electrical, hydraulics, thermal, fluid, media, chemical, building, automotive, aircraft, …)
 -  Automotive applications
 - Thermodynamic and energy systems applications
 - Mechatronics and robotics applications
 - Medicine and biology applications
 - Other industrial applications, such as electric drives, power systems, aerospace, etc.
 - Large-scale system modelling
 - Real-time and hardware-in-the-loop simulation
 - Simulation and code generation for embedded control systems
 - Simulation acceleration by use of many CPU cores or GPU cores
 - Applications of Modelica for optimization and optimal control
 - Modelica modeling, simulation and design tools
 - Symbolic algorithms and numerical methods for model transformation and simulation
 - Discrete modeling techniques − FEM, CFD, DEM (Discrete Element Method), …
 - New features of the Modelica language and of FMI
 - Experimental language designs and implementations related to Modelica
 - Modelica in other application areas (mathematical programming, databases etc.)
 - Modelica for teaching and education
 - FMI in Modelica and non-Modelica applications and tools
 
 Please see the  [Authors' Guide](authors) for further information. You can upload your paper using the [EasyChair Conference Management System](https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=namugamc2024).

| Date | |
| --- | --- |
|May 1, 2024 |Call for Papers|
|June 1, 2024 |Call for Industrial User Presentations|
|June 1, 2024 |Tutorials, Workshops, and Vendor Presentations|
|August 1, 2024|Notification of acceptance for papers and presentations|
|August 30, 2024|Submission of final papers, presentations, and one-page abstracts|
|October 14-16, 2024| American Modelica Conference 2024|
 

The conference proceedings will be published by the Modelica Association on its website and by  [Linköping University Electronic Press](http://www.ep.liu.se/).
Each paper will be individually referenced by a DOI.

## Call for Industrial User Presentations

You are encouraged to submit an  **extended abstract**  of 1-2 pages, related to one of the existing or possibly new  [Modelica Association Projects](https://modelica.org/projects):

-   LANG - Modelica Language
-   LIB - Modelica Libraries
-   FMI - Functional Mockup Interface <!-- (doubles as the [FMI user meeting](fmi-user-meeting.html)) -->
-   eFMI - Functional Mockup Interface for embedded systems
-   SSP - System Structure and Parameterization of Components for Virtual System Design
-   DCP - Distributed Co-Simulation Protocol


The extended abstract in PDF format should be submitted through the  [EasyChair Conference Management System](https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=namugamc2024) before **June 1st, 2024**. Industrial user presentations is an exellent way to present recent results to the Modelica community with less effort and overhead than a full paper submission. Please indicate whether you plan to give your presentation on-site or remotely in the submission form. This is different from paper presentations, which we expect to be in-person. 

The abstracts will be peer-reviewed by experts, but no papers will be published in the conference proceedings.

Please note that purely tool-related presentations are not permitted for these application-oriented presentations, they should be covered by **vendor presentations**.


## Call for Tutorials


At the Modelica conference, several tutorials will take place in parallel. Each tutorial will last for up to 4 hours and includes a "hands-on-experience" session (participants are expected to have own notebook; the presenter will provide the presented tools). If you are interested, please send us an email at **[modelicaNA2024@groups.liu.se](mailto:modelicaNA2024@groups.liu.se)**, providing title, presenter(s), and an abstract of the tutorial.  The deadline for application is  **July 1st, 2022**; however, as only a limited number of tutorials can be held in parallel, we advise you to apply as early as possible.

<!-- Tutorials are free for the participants, but especially for commercial tools the presenter is charged $250 per session, provided it is a hands on training tutorial, not just commercial presentation or demonstration (for product presentations see Vendor sessions above). Upon written request some tutorials, especially non-commercial, (e.g. FMI, Open Source libraries etc.), could be exempted from the fee by decision of the organising committee. -->

Decision about the acceptance of tutorials will be based upon Modelica/FMI relation of content and on the time of application.

Payment of fees will be handled through our registration links via Eventbrite


<!-- The authors of the 10% top papers submitted to the conference will be invited to submit an extended version after the conference, for inclusion in a special issue of an open-access, ISI-referenced journal. Please note that the extended papers will undergo a full peer-review process which is independent from the one of the Modelica Conference. -->
